This list of damage types is experimental and subject to change.

It is inspired in both Dungeons and Dragons and Neverwinter Nights.

# Physical

## Slashing

Slashing damage is physical damage caused by weapons such as axe blades, swords
and scimitars. Many undead are resistant to slashing damage.

## Piercing

Piercing damage is physical damage caused by weapons such as rapiers and most
ranged weapons.

## Bludgeoning

Bludgeoning damage is physical damage caused by blunt weapons such as clubs and
hammers.

## Crushing

Crushing damage is physical damage caused by falling and by being crushed in the
grasp of a giant.

# Elemental

This is usually in addition to a weapon's base damage, or from a spell effect.
The most common form of damage resistance is against elemental damage.

## Acid

Acid-type damage is acid damage. Being damaged by acid does not automatically
mean the acid will persist in damaging you over several rounds unless the spell
or ability in question specifies that it does damage over several rounds.
Demons commonly have some resistance to acid. The breath of green dragons, black
dragons, and copper dragons are known to be acidic. Acid damage is also
frequently associated with assassins.

## Cold

Cold is the antithesis of fire, and as such, cold damage can be anything from
actual ice forming on your skin to damage from freezing. Resistance to cold
damage is common in demons and devils. The breath of white dragons and silver
dragons are icy cold and cold damage is often associated with arctic beings and
some water based entities.

## Electricity

Electric damage is, well, shocking. As with cold and fire, devils and demons
have resistance to electricity. The breath of blue dragons and bronze dragons
are said to crackle with electricity. Electrical damage is often associated with
the element of air.

## Fire

Fire is your run-of-the-mill fire effect, and incorporates both damage from
actual fire as well as damage from heat. Fire resistance is common in creatures
like demons and devils. Many creatures like hell hounds, red dragons, and gold
dragons can breathe fire and deserts are also associated with fire damage.

## Poison

Poison damage is damage inflicted by poisonous creatures and substances.

## Sonic

Sonic damage is damage inflicted by sound waves. Sound burst is an example of a
spell used to bring forth sonic damage. Sonic damage is relatively uncommon.

# Energy

## Divine

Divine energy damage is caused by the power of the gods.

## Magic

Magic damage is also known as 'non-elemental damage'.

## Negative

Negative energy is energy channelled from the negative energy plane and is
associated with death and destruction. It deals damage depending on the target's
status: If the target is a living creature, it will inflict damage. If the
target is an undead creature, however, it will heal the creature.

## Positive

Positive energy is the opposite of negative energy, and is channelled from the
positive energy plane. Healing spells such as cure light wounds are its most
famous manifestation as the positive energy will heal a living target while
damaging an undead one.
